---
layout: post
title: 21 days to go - Finished Foundations Part 2
categories:
- blog
---

Just finished the checkpoint quiz for Foundations Part 2 yesterday. There weren't too many new concepts covered this week, since half of the curriculum was devoted to learning HTML/CSS for the number guessing game. I can't believe the last checkpoint is coming up this weekend already!

The concepts covered this week included:
- Functional programming concepts and practice using/implementing functions like `map`, `filter`, and `reduce`.
- A review of the prototypal inheritance model which was also discussed during Part 1.
  - Learned how to use `Object.create()` to create empty objects with its `__proto__` property set to the specified constructor function's `.prototype`.
- Recursion! Problems solved using recursion can always be also solved iteratively, but sometimes using recursion is cleaner. For example, when you need to loop through all elements within a nested object without knowing its maximum depth.
- Basic HTML, CSS and the box model. Using Chrome's DevTools really helped here, as well as going through Code School's course for [DevTools](http://discover-devtools.codeschool.com/). It was kind of fun adding CSS properties to elements on the fly, especially by using the interactive "Add text-shadow" and "Add box-shadow" tools :)

### Next steps
- Focus on reviewing concepts and solving small problems in preparation for the final checkpoint this weekend.
- Continue working on the Guessing Game site by adding JS and jQuery.